README.md, before:

[![Status badge](https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/squint/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/squint/actions?query=branch%3Amain)

# Squint

> Makes visual reviews of web app releases easy.

![Example terminal usage](docs/terminal.gif)

`squint compare https://prod.myapp.com https://beta.myapp.com` uses Puppeteer to:

* automatically crawl all url paths from the beta version
* take screenshots of each page from prod and beta versions of the app
* output all diff images for pages that had visual differences

That's the main intended use case. The diffs will likely
have false positives due to async loading or animations. That's ok,
the main intention is not to be a full solution, but rather a light-weight
alternative.

For most production setups, I'd recommend using [Percy](https://percy.io/) instead.
That said, CLI flags have been designed customization in mind: you can for example run
custom JS code before Puppeteer takes a screenshot.

**Goodies:**

* [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer) under the hood
* Smart defaults but [highly configurable](#usage).

    The goal is to provide most convenience flags via CLI, but allow flexible JS options for advanced tricks.

* Supports [connecting to your local Chrome](#connect-to-a-chrome-session), with its existing logins and sessions. No need to deal with cookies in code.
* Tested on all platforms: macOS, Windows, and Linux

![Example image of diff](docs/diff.png)

## Known limitations

The path structure needs to be 1-to-1 match between the two sites. If you have preview builds for example under
`https://prod.myapp.com/previews/123/...`, this won't work automatically. The workaround is to use a [proxy](https://www.npmjs.com/package/http-proxy-cli):

```bash
http-proxy -p 8080 https://prod.myapp.com/previews/123/ &
PID=$!
squint compare https://prod.myapp.com/ http://localhost:8080

kill $PID
```

## Install

`npm i -g squint-cli`

## Usage

*Auto-generated*

```bash
  EXAMPLES

      Compare beta to current production. The whole site is automatically crawled.
      $ squint compare https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Crawl all paths from beta site and pipe output to a file. The crawler only follows site-internal links.
      $ squint crawl https://beta.example.com > paths.txt

      Get screenshot of a page.
      $ squint screenshot https://beta.example.com

      Get screenshot of a single element in a page.
      $ squint screenshot --selector 'div' https://beta.example.com

      Compare beta to current production, but use an existing file of paths.
      $ squint compare --paths-file paths.txt https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Compare a single page.
      $ squint compare --single-page https://example.com/about https://beta.example.com/about

      Compare a single element with a selector.
      $ squint compare --selector '#logo' https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Compare a single element, but use JS to dig an element from the page. (page: Puppeteer.Page) => HTMLElement
      $ squint compare --selector-js '(page) => page.$("#logo")' https://example.com https://beta.example.com

  COMMON OPTIONS

      --help                       Shows this help message
      --include-hash               When enabled, URL hashes are not removed. Default: false
      --trailing-slash-mode        Options: preserve, remove, add. Default: preserve
      --puppeteer-launch-mode      Options: launch, connect. Default: launch
      --puppeteer-launch-options   Puppeteer .launch or .connect options in JS. Default: {"headless":true}
      --after-goto                 Custom JS code that will be run after Puppeteer page.goto has been called.
                                   (page: Puppeteer.Page) => Promise<void>
      --after-page                 Custom JS code that will be run after Puppeteer page has been created.
                                   (page: Puppeteer.Page) => Promise<void>

  COMPARE & SCREENSHOT

      -w --width             Viewport width for Puppeteer. Default: 1280
      -h --height            Viewport height for Puppeteer. Default: 800
      --paths-file           File of URL paths. One path per line.
      --selector             Selector for document.querySelector. The first found element is used.
                             page.waitForSelector is called to ensure the element is visible.
      --selector-js          Selector that uses JS to dig an element. (page: Puppeteer.Page) => HTMLElement
      --screenshot-options   Puppeteer .screenshot options in JS. Overrides other options.

  COMPARE

      --out-dir              Output directory for images. Default: .squint
      --single-page          Disable automatic crawling. Only take a screenshot from single page.
      -o --out-file          Relevant in only in single-page mode. Output file for the diff image.
      --save-all             Saves all diff image files, even if there are zero differences.

  SCREENSHOT

      -o --out-file          Output file for the screenshot

  CRAWL

      --max-depth            Maximum depth of links to follow. Default: Infinity


```

## Tips & tricks

Got a trick? Submit a PR!
### Connect to a Chrome session

*This way you can reuse existing sessions and logins. No need to do difficult setup with cookies.*

1. Close your Chrome process (unless you already have remote debugging enabled).
2. Launch Chrome with a remote debugger enabled

    In macOS: `/Applications/Google\ Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome --remote-debugging-port=9222`

3. `squint screenshot --puppeteer-launch-mode connect --puppeteer-launch-options '{ browserURL: "http://localhost:9222" }' https://example.com`


### Enable very verbose Puppeteer logging

```bash
DEBUG="puppeteer:* squint screenshot https://example.com
```

### Disable headless mode

```bash
squint screenshot --puppeteer-launch-options '{ headless: false }' https://example.com
```

### Interact with page before screenshot

Click "I agree" button to hide ToS popup before taking a screenshot. *Beware of character escaping, it's fragile.*

```bash
squint screenshot https://google.com --puppeteer-launch-options '{ headless: false }' --after-goto 'async (page) => {
  const [button] = await page.$x(`//button[contains(., "I agree")]`);
  await button.click();
}'
```


## Maintenance tasks

### Debugging tests

```
DEBUG_TESTS=true npm test
```

There's also `DEBUG_PUPPETEER=true` that launches Chrome with the UI visible. It seems that Puppeteer element screenshot works differently when running with `headless: false`. Use with caution!


### Generating baseline screenshots for tests

*Make sure the images are small because they are stored in git.*

Run `bash tools/populate-test-data.sh` to re-generate PNG images for test cases.
These images are the baseline, and considered to be correct results.

### Making a new release

```
bash release.sh
```

Commit message:

Implement --include-search-query option and make the default false

README.md, after:

[![Status badge](https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/squint/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/kimmobrunfeldt/squint/actions?query=branch%3Amain)

# Squint

> Makes visual reviews of web app releases easy.

![Example terminal usage](docs/terminal.gif)

`squint compare https://prod.myapp.com https://beta.myapp.com` uses Puppeteer to:

* automatically crawl all url paths from the beta version
* take screenshots of each page from prod and beta versions of the app
* output all diff images for pages that had visual differences

That's the main intended use case. The diffs will likely
have false positives due to async loading or animations. That's ok,
the main intention is not to be a full solution, but rather a light-weight
alternative.

For most production setups, I'd recommend using [Percy](https://percy.io/) instead.
That said, CLI flags have been designed customization in mind: you can for example run
custom JS code before Puppeteer takes a screenshot.

**Goodies:**

* [Puppeteer](https://github.com/puppeteer/puppeteer) under the hood
* Smart defaults but [highly configurable](#usage).

    The goal is to provide most convenience flags via CLI, but allow flexible JS options for advanced tricks.

* Supports [connecting to your local Chrome](#connect-to-a-chrome-session), with its existing logins and sessions. No need to deal with cookies in code.
* Tested on all platforms: macOS, Windows, and Linux

![Example image of diff](docs/diff.png)

## Known limitations

The path structure needs to be 1-to-1 match between the two sites. If you have preview builds for example under
`https://prod.myapp.com/previews/123/...`, this won't work automatically. The workaround is to use a [proxy](https://www.npmjs.com/package/http-proxy-cli):

```bash
http-proxy -p 8080 https://prod.myapp.com/previews/123/ &
PID=$!
squint compare https://prod.myapp.com/ http://localhost:8080

kill $PID
```

## Install

`npm i -g squint-cli`

## Usage

*Auto-generated*

```bash
  EXAMPLES

      Compare beta to current production. The whole site is automatically crawled.
      $ squint compare https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Crawl all paths from beta site and pipe output to a file. The crawler only follows site-internal links.
      $ squint crawl https://beta.example.com > paths.txt

      Get screenshot of a page.
      $ squint screenshot https://beta.example.com

      Get screenshot of a single element in a page.
      $ squint screenshot --selector 'div' https://beta.example.com

      Compare beta to current production, but use an existing file of paths.
      $ squint compare --paths-file paths.txt https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Compare a single page.
      $ squint compare --single-page https://example.com/about https://beta.example.com/about

      Compare a single element with a selector.
      $ squint compare --selector '#logo' https://example.com https://beta.example.com

      Compare a single element, but use JS to dig an element from the page. (page: Puppeteer.Page) => HTMLElement
      $ squint compare --selector-js '(page) => page.$("#logo")' https://example.com https://beta.example.com

  COMMON OPTIONS

      --help                       Shows this help message
      --include-hash               When enabled, URL hashes are not ignored when crawling. Default: false
      --include-search-query       When enabled, URL search queries are not ignored when crawling. Default: false
      --trailing-slash-mode        Options: preserve, remove, add. Default: preserve
      --puppeteer-launch-mode      Options: launch, connect. Default: launch
      --puppeteer-launch-options   Puppeteer .launch or .connect options in JS. Default: {"headless":true}
      --after-goto                 Custom JS code that will be run after Puppeteer page.goto has been called.
                                   (page: Puppeteer.Page) => Promise<void>
      --after-page                 Custom JS code that will be run after Puppeteer page has been created.
                                   (page: Puppeteer.Page) => Promise<void>

  COMPARE & SCREENSHOT

      -w --width             Viewport width for Puppeteer. Default: 1280
      -h --height            Viewport height for Puppeteer. Default: 800
      --paths-file           File of URL paths. One path per line.
      --selector             Selector for document.querySelector. The first found element is used.
                             page.waitForSelector is called to ensure the element is visible.
      --selector-js          Selector that uses JS to dig an element. (page: Puppeteer.Page) => HTMLElement
      --screenshot-options   Puppeteer .screenshot options in JS. Overrides other options.

  COMPARE

      --out-dir              Output directory for images. Default: .squint
      --single-page          Disable automatic crawling. Only take a screenshot from single page.
      -o --out-file          Relevant in only in single-page mode. Output file for the diff image.
      --save-all             Saves all diff image files, even if there are zero differences.

  SCREENSHOT

      -o --out-file          Output file for the screenshot

  CRAWL

      --max-depth            Maximum depth of links to follow. Default: Infinity


```

## Tips & tricks

Got a trick? Submit a PR!
### Connect to a Chrome session

*This way you can reuse existing sessions and logins. No need to do difficult setup with cookies.*

1. Close your Chrome process (unless you already have remote debugging enabled).
2. Launch Chrome with a remote debugger enabled

    In macOS: `/Applications/Google\ Chrome.app/Contents/MacOS/Google\ Chrome --remote-debugging-port=9222`

3. `squint screenshot --puppeteer-launch-mode connect --puppeteer-launch-options '{ browserURL: "http://localhost:9222" }' https://example.com`


### Enable very verbose Puppeteer logging

```bash
DEBUG="puppeteer:* squint screenshot https://example.com
```

### Disable headless mode

```bash
squint screenshot --puppeteer-launch-options '{ headless: false }' https://example.com
```

### Interact with page before screenshot

Click "I agree" button to hide ToS popup before taking a screenshot. *Beware of character escaping, it's fragile.*

```bash
squint screenshot https://google.com --puppeteer-launch-options '{ headless: false }' --after-goto 'async (page) => {
  const [button] = await page.$x(`//button[contains(., "I agree")]`);
  await button.click();
}'
```


## Maintenance tasks

### Debugging tests

```
DEBUG_TESTS=true npm test
```

There's also `DEBUG_PUPPETEER=true` that launches Chrome with the UI visible. It seems that Puppeteer element screenshot works differently when running with `headless: false`. Use with caution!


### Generating baseline screenshots for tests

*Make sure the images are small because they are stored in git.*

Run `bash tools/populate-test-data.sh` to re-generate PNG images for test cases.
These images are the baseline, and considered to be correct results.

### Making a new release

```
bash release.sh
```
